== README

This is my project to build a personal financial management software to replace using Microsoft Money, Quicken, KMyMoney, and others that have provided partial solutions. I've been using Microsoft Money for 10+ years but it's always been a pain that it is only avalible on Windows OS. Now that I primarly use Mac and Linux, I'd like to have something just as useful but cross platform compatible. Plus I'd like to be able to use it on mobile devices. There are many paid services taht already offer this, but I wanted to make a free open source version. I'll try to update this readme as parts of the project are completed. Currently I don't have a lot of time to commit to the project, so progress may be slow.

This is a project for an open source personal finance money management application.

Money Map: Personal Finance and Budgeting Software

This is a project for creating a cross platform compatible personal finance and budgeting software to help manage money. I have been a long time user of financial software for budgeting. That software includes MS Money 2003 Deluxe, dsbudget, YNAB, MoneyDance, and KMyMoney.

The software will be easy to use so people of all ages...adults use to to manage their personal or family finances and children can use it to learn how to budget and save.

Id like the desktop version of this to be based on the Node.js platform and be written in HTML, JavaScript, and CSS. That will be the next step after comleting the Rails version. This feature list is a mix of features to be added in the web and desktop version.

## Features Planned 
x =complete

### Priority 1 Features
- [ ] Home page with overview and profile summary
- [ ] Implement chartkick.com or charts.js
- [ ] Cross platform compatible with Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS, Android OS
- [ ] Simple install and execution
- [ ] Resize Text
- [ ] Print as pdf (custom print.css)
- [ ] Export to .txt and .csv file
- [ ] Export transactions to excel
- [ ] Create Categories and Sub-categories
- [ ] Add Transactions
- [ ] Edit Transactions
- [ ] Add files to transactions
- [ ] Auto Save
- [ ] Ability to update software with web connection
- [ ] Version checker icon in upper right hand corner that can be clicked (with confirmation) to update software
- [ ] Update software without loosing existing data
- [ ] Sort Transactions by category (Date, Check#, Description/memo, Category, Payment, Deposit, Balance)
- [ ] Budgeting (with select category tracking)
- [ ] Graphs..bar and pie and list (quick view of expenses for week, month, quarter, 6-months, year)
- [ ] Graphs for others by link to page to create
- [ ] Graphs printable
- [ ] Net-worth
- [ ] Calculate Mortgage Payments
- [ ] Grouping...(that can be changed by drag and drop)
- [ ] Bank Accounts
- [ ] Credit Cards (Balance, Limit, APR, and ability to sort by order should be paid off for lowest total interest paid)
- [ ] Loans
- [ ] Assets
- [ ] Liabilities 
- [ ] Handle Escrow (P&I, Taxes, Insurance, and PMI or other additions)
- [ ] Create 10+ screen shots
- [ ] Create Getting Started Guide (Easy Quick Start Guide)
- [ ] Create User Guide
- [ ] Create Getting started video
- [ ] Create feature video

### Priority 2 Features
- [ ] Built in loan comparison calculators
- [ ] Goal to purchase / saving progress page
- [ ] Produce Amortization Charts
- [ ] Auto Backup to two locations (option)
- [ ] User accounts
- [ ] Support ticket location for easy submission and tracking
- [ ] Desktop / Web app sync

## Paid Version
The following features might be released in a paid version if not in the free open source version.

- [ ] Investment Accounts
- [ ] Stocks (static)
- [ ] Bonds (static)
- [ ] IRAs (static)


## Concerns
I have no idea how I am going to do this. The only extensive single language programing training I have is Ruby. After that it is some Rails, HTML, and CSS. I was taught Java....more than 10 years ago and never used it. I have some C# and JavaScript knowledge but will need a lot more to complete this project.

I will be learning along the way, using whatever tools I can find. In the end I hope to provide a easy to maintain application with readable code.

Support for users will be limited for the free version for now.
